restructure nrf52 intro slides (#281)
ferrous-systems/rust-exercises: exercise-book/src/nrf52/board.md

with the target chip. All of this avoids the need for an external probe.

💬 These directions assume you are holding the board "horizontally" with components (switches, buttons and pins) facing up. In this position, rotate the board, so that its convex shaped short side faces right. You'll find one USB connector (J2) on the left edge, another USB connector (J3) on the bottom edge and 4 buttons on the bottom right corner.

The board has several switches to configure its behavior. The out of the box configuration is the one we want. If the above instructions didn't work for you, check the position of the following switches:

- SW6 is set to the DEFAULT position (to the right - nRF = DEFAULT).
- SW7 (protected by Kapton tape) is set to the Def. position (to the right - TRACE = Def.).
- SW8 is set to the ON (to the left) position (Power = ON)
- SW9 is set to the VDD position (center - nRF power source = VDD)
- SW10 (protected by Kapton tape) is set to the OFF position (to the left - VEXT -> nRF = OFF).

![Labeled Diagram of the nRF52840 Development Kit (DK)](../img/nrf52840_dk_board.jpg)

## Detecting the board

> We installed `cargo` when we set up the dongle, so we are able to use `cargo xtask serial-term`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We installed `cargo` when we set up the dongle, so we are able to use `cargo xtask usb-list`
```

- 1 MB of Flash (at address `0x0000_0000`)
- 256 KB of RAM (at address `0x2000_0000`)
- IEEE 802.15.4 and BLE (Bluetooth Low Energy) compatible radio
- USB controller (device function)

## Preparing the flashing tool

To verify that our on-board J-Link is working properly and our board is ready for the
following exercises, we will flash a small hello world application onto it.

We provide a simple pre-built blinky app that can be used to quickly verify that this flashing
process works properly. You can download the `blinky` ELF file from the
[release](https://github.com/ferrous-systems/rust-exercises/releases) page.

We are going to use a debugging tool built with Rust which is well integrated into the Embedded
Rust ecosystem called [`probe-rs`](https://probe.rs/). The [installation page](https://probe.rs/docs/getting-started/installation/)
specifies how you can install this tool on your operating system. If you are on Windows and have
problems executing the Windows PowerShell script, you can also download pre-built binaries from
the [releases page](https://github.com/probe-rs/probe-rs/releases). You can then place these pre-built

> binaries at some location and add the location to the environmental variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
binaries at some location (and add the location to your system PATH if it isn't in there already).
```

these steps.

### Linux specific - Configure USB Device access for non-root users

We have to update the `udev` rules for proper permissions.
To access the USB devices as a non-root user, follow these steps:

1. As root, create `/etc/udev/rules.d/50-ferrous-training.rules` with the following contents:

    ```console
    # udev rules to allow access to USB devices as a non-root user

    # nRF52840 Dongle in bootloader mode
    ATTRS{idVendor}=="1915", ATTRS{idProduct}=="521f", TAG+="uaccess"

    # nRF52840 Dongle applications
    ATTRS{idVendor}=="1209", TAG+="uaccess"

    # nRF52840 Development Kit
    ATTRS{idVendor}=="1366", ENV{ID_MM_DEVICE_IGNORE}="1", TAG+="uaccess"
    ```

2. Run the following command to put the new udev rules into effect

    ```console
    sudo udevadm control --reload-rules
    sudo udevadm trigger
    ```

If you plan to use `probe-rs` for other microcontrollers and setups, it is strongly recommended
to follow the Linux specific steps on the [`probe-rs` website](https://probe.rs/docs/getting-started/probe-setup/)
which involve downloading a generic rules file, manually placing it in `/etc/udev/rules.d` and then
running step 2 above.

### Windows

> On Windows, you might have to re-configure the firmware running on the on-board J-Link first

Reviewer: OK, let me test on Windows and come back on this one.

> # nRF52840 Development Kit (DK)

Reviewer: This heading should match the heading in `SUMMARY.md` otherwise you see a link to chapter A and then appear to be on a page for some other chapter B.

This is the larger development board.

The board has two USB ports: J2 and J3 and an on-board J-Link programmer / debugger. USB port J3 is
the nRF52840's USB port. Connect the Development Kit to your computer using the **J2** port.
You can also refer to the image below to see the location of the different components on the board.

The development board actually has two chips. One is the nRF52840 target chip,

> and the other contains a special firmware which transforms it into a J-Link debugger. Your computer will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and the other contains a special firmware which transforms it into a SEGGER J-Link debug probe. Your computer will
```

communicate via USB with the J-Link, which will in turn use the SWD protocol to interface

> with the target chip via a JTAG interface. All of this avoids the need for an external probe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with the target chip. All of this avoids the need for an external probe.
```

It's not talking JTAG, it's talking SWD :)

$ ls -l /dev/serial/by-id/*
lrwxrwxrwx - root  2 Mar 14:31 /dev/serial/by-id/usb-SEGGER_J-Link_001050238928-if00 -> ../../ttyACM0
lrwxrwxrwx - root  2 Mar 14:31 /dev/serial/by-id/usb-SEGGER_J-Link_001050238928-if02 -> ../../ttyACM1
```

### macOS

When the nRF52-DK is connected to your Mac it shows up as a removable USB flash drive (named JLINK) on the Desktop, and also a USB device named "J-Link" when executing `ioreg -p IOUSB -b -n "J-Link"`.

```console
$ ioreg -p IOUSB -b -n "J-Link"
(...)
  | +-o J-Link@14300000  <class AppleUSBDevice, id 0x10000606a, registered, matched, active, busy 0 $
  |     {
  |       (...)
  |       "idProduct" = 4117
  |       (...)
  |       "USB Product Name" = "J-Link"
  |       (...)
  |       "USB Vendor Name" = "SEGGER"
  |       "idVendor" = 4966
  |       (...)
  |       "USB Serial Number" = "000683420803"
  |       (...)
  |     }
  |
```

The device will also show up in the `/dev` directory as `tty.usbmodem<USB Serial Number>`:

```console
$ ls /dev/tty.usbmodem*
/dev/tty.usbmodem0006834208031
```

## The nRF52840 chip

Both development boards have an nRF52840 microcontroller. Here are some details that are relevant to these exercises:

> - single core ARM Cortex-M4 processor clocked at 64 MHz

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Single core ARM Cortex-M4 processor clocked at 64 MHz
```

- 1 MB of Flash (at address `0x0000_0000`)
- 256 KB of RAM (at address `0x2000_0000`)
- IEEE 802.15.4 and BLE (Bluetooth Low Energy) compatible radio
- USB controller (device function)

## Flashing a test application

To verify that our on-board J-Link is working properly and our board is ready for the
following exercises, we will build and flash a small hello world application onto it.

> We previously installed the `thumbv7em-none-eabihf` target in the [software preparation](./tools.md)

Reviewer: Do `rustup target add thumbv7em-none-eabihf` here instead.

Reviewer: Or, a better idea - we should pre-compile a test program that people can load with drag-and-drop to check their board is working. This means we get the DK testing out of the way without needing a rustup target or probe-rs installed.

It should be available from the github releases area just like dongle-fw, except instead of being in ELF format it will be Intel Hex format, or whatever the J-Link lets you drag-and-drop onto the virtual disk drive.

Reviewer: Or we could get them to install `probe-rs` here and use that to load a pre-compiled firmware that they've downloaded.
